
HemingwayApp
------------

http://www.hemingwayapp.com/

### Readability Algorithms

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_readability_tests#ARI
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_readability_index
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flesch%E2%80%93Kincaid_readability_tests

http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/667273.pdf
http://jlr.sagepub.com/content/7/2/149.full.pdf
http://www.diva-portal.se/smash/get/diva2:721646/FULLTEXT01.pdf
https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/d165/c2a774c9a811020eeaa7433df6da1567803a.pdf

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_DuBay

### Javascript implementation

https://github.com/duereg/automated-readability-index

```
npm install automated-readability-index
```

Aspect
------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grammatical_aspect

https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/perfective_aspect
https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/aorist_aspect#English
https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/imperfective_aspect#English
https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/iterative_aspect#English
https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/semelfactive_aspect#English

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aorist_aspect
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aorist
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preterite

### Preterite

The preterite is a grammatical tense or verb form serving to denote
events that took place or were completed in the past. In general,
it combines the perfective aspect (event viewed as a single whole;
it is not to be confused with the similarly named perfect) with the
past tense, and may thus also be termed the perfective past. In
grammars of particular languages the preterite is sometimes called
the past historic, or (particularly in the Greek grammatical
tradition) the aorist. When the term "preterite" is used in relation
to specific languages it may not correspond precisely to this
definition. In English it can be used to refer to the simple past
verb form, which sometimes (but not always) expresses perfective
aspect. The case of German is similar: the Präteritum is the simple
(non-compound) past tense, which does not always imply perfective
aspect, and is anyway often replaced by the Perfekt (compound past)
even in perfective past meanings.

The majority of English's preterites (often called simple past or
just past tense) are formed by adding -ed or -d to the verb's plain
form (bare infinitive), sometimes with spelling modifications. This
is the result of the conjugation system of weak verbs, already in
the majority in Old English, being raised to paradigmatic status
and even taking over earlier conjugations of some old strong verbs.
As a result, all newly introduced verbs have the weak conjugation.
Examples:

 * He planted corn and oats.
 * They studied grammar.
 * She shoved the Viking aside.
   (Original preterite scēaf, from an Old English strong verb.)
 * I friended him on Facebook.
   (A new verb with a weak preterite.)

A number of English verbs form their preterites by suppletion, a
result of either Ablaut, a regular set of sound changes (to an
interior vowel) in the conjugation of a strong verb, or because the
verb conjugations are the remains of a more complex system of tenses
in irregular verbs:

 * She went to the cinema.
   (Preterite of "go"; uses a completely different verb - the
    Anglo-Saxon 'wendan' from which comes 'to wend'.)
 * I ate breakfast late this morning.
   (Preterite of "eat".)
 * He ran to the store.
   (Preterite of "run".)

With the exception of "to be" and auxiliary and modal verbs,
interrogative and negative clauses do not use their main verbs'
preterites; if their declarative or positive counterpart does not
use any auxiliary or modal verb, then the auxiliary verb did (the
preterite of do) is inserted and the main verb appears in its plain
form, as an infinitive:

 * Was she busy today?
 * He was not there.
 * Could she play the piano when she was ten?
 * The editor had not read the book yet.
 * Did he plant corn and oats?
 * She did not go to the cinema.

For more details, see English verbs, Simple past, and Uses of English
verb forms.

Tense
-----

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grammatical_tense

English
-------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_verbs
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_past
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uses_of_English_verb_forms

<!-- vim: set autoindent expandtab sw=4 syntax=markdown: -->
